---
title : "Fixture Page"
description: ""
lead: ""
date: 2025-05-02T09:04:34+0200
lastmod: 2025-05-02T09:04:28+0200
draft: false
images: []
weight: 60
---

In this section, the basic information of a GDTF file is defined.

1.  Enter the **Manufacturer** of the fixture type.
    While typing, a list of existing manufacturers will be displayed. If the manufacturer already exists, choose the existing name to avoid duplicates.
2.  Enter the **Name** of the fixture type. This name is used as part of the GDTF file name.
3.  Enter the **Long name** of the fixture type.
4.  Enter the **Short name** of the fixture type.


{{% notice tip %}}
The short name should be as short as possible, but still unique and memorizable for this fixture type.
{{% /notice %}}

5.  The Fixture **Type ID** (GUID) is automatically generated by the GDTF Builder.
6.  To link to a referenced fixture, enter the **Unique number** (GUID) in the field Linked GDTF.
    In this way, you can refer one fixture to the other.
7.  Enter the **RDM Manufacturer ID** (unique manufacturer ESTA ID).
    It can be found here: [https://tsp.esta.org/tsp/working\_groups/CP/mfctrIDs.php](https://tsp.esta.org/tsp/working_groups/CP/mfctrIDs.php).
8.  Enter the **RDM Device Model ID** (unique ID of the device).
    The Device Model must be retrieved from manufacturer documentation. It could also be avilable in the OpenLighting database, see this example: http://rdm.openlighting.org/model/display?manufacturer=21075&model=226 .

    For both properties, the hexadecimal representation is used.

 {{% image_inline src="../media/RDM_manufacturer_fixture_ids.png" alt="RDM Manufacturer and Fixture IDs" %}} 

_RDM Manufacturer and Fixture IDs_


9.  Enter the **Fixture Description**.

### Images

It is possible to attach a product image and a vector image to the fixture type.

To add a product image, go to the **PNG** tab and select Click to upload a new PNG image.
To add a vector image, go to the **SVG** tab and select Click to upload new SVG image.

 {{% image_inline src="../media/builder_fixture_images.png" alt="" %}} 

_Product image and vector image examples_

{{% notice tip %}}
Use a PNG file with transparent background for best results.
Read more about the requirements for product and vector images in the GDTF Spec (section "Fixture Type Node Attributes").
{{% /notice %}}

To delete a product or vector image, select Click to delete this PNG/SVG image.
